Add Worker Versioning doc (#1533)
temporalio/documentation: docs-src/concepts/what-is-worker-versioning.md

---
id: what-is-worker-versioning
title: What is Worker Versioning?
sidebar_label: Worker Versioning
description: Worker Versioning allows you to more easily deploy changes to Workflow Definitions.
tags:
  - explanation
  - versioning
---

Worker Versioning simplifies the process of deploying changes to [WorkflowDefinitions](/workflows/#workflow-definition). We recommend that you read about Workflow Definitions
before proceeding, because Workflow Versioning is largely concerned with helping to manage
nondeterministic changes to those definitions.

This feature can help you manage nondeterministic changes by providing a convenient way to ensure

> that [Workers](/workers) with different Workflow & Activity Definitions operating on the same [TaskQueue](/tasks/#task-queue) do not attempt to process [Workflow Tasks](/tasks/#workflow-task) and

Reviewer: nit: the line here is much longer than the others.

Author: I think github just is lying there. They're all wrapped @ 100

Author: Oh, nevermind, whatever auto-formatter we have just ruins everthing. That's just the way it is.

[Activity Tasks](/tasks/#actvitiy-task) that they can't successfully process, according to sets of
versions associated with that Task Queue that you define.

You accomplish this goal by assigning a build identifier (a free-form string) to the code that
defines a Worker, and specifying which build identifiers are compatible with each other by updating
the version sets.

### When and for what should you use Worker Versioning?

The primary use case for this feature is the deployment of incompatible changes to short-lived
[Workflows](/workers). On Task Queues using this feature, the Workflow starter does not need to know
when new versions are introduced. New [Workflow Executions](/workflows#workflow-execution) run using
the new code in the newly deployed Workers, and old (but still open) Workflow Executions are
processed only by Workers with an appropriate version. Old workers can be decommissioned after the

> completion of any open workflows using their version.

Reviewer: I think we shouldn't say "open" here since there's the issue of querying closed workflows.

is to always assign a new build identifier to every new build of your Worker and add it to the
version sets as the new overall default. Because you know that your Workflow never takes more than a
day to complete, you know that you'll never have to leave older Workers running for more than a day
after you deploy the new version (assuming availability). You don't need to worry about removing old
versions from the sets. Leaving them there is harmless.

You can use this technique with longer-lived Workflows as well. Just be aware that you might need to
keep multiple versions of Workers running while open Workflows complete.

You can also use the feature to prevent a buggy codepath from being taken on currently open
Workflows. You can do this by adding a new version to an existing set and specifying it as
_compatible_ with an existing version on which no future Workflow Tasks should execute. Because the
new version processes existing [Event Histories](/workflows/#event-history), it is subject to the
normal [deterministic constraints](/workflows/#deterministic-constraints), and you might need to use
one of the [versioning APIs](/workflows/#workflow-versioning).

> The feature also permits you to make incompatible changes to Activity Definitions in conjunction

Reviewer: You should mention continue as new too.

with incompatible changes to Workflow Definitions that use those Activities. This works because any
Activity scheduled by a Workfow on the same Task Queue will, by default, only be dispatched to
Workers that have a compatible build ID with the Workflow that scheduled it. Thus, if you wish

> to change the type signature of an Activity Definition while creating a new incompatible build ID

Reviewer: While mentioned above, I'd stress the fact that this requires that those activities are called only from workflows on the same task queue.

for a Worker, you can do so without concern that the Activity will fail to execute on some other
Worker with an incompatible definition. The same principle applies to Child Workflows.

Note that if you schedule an Activity or a Child Workflow on _different_ Task Queue from the one
the Workflow is running on, they will be not be assigned any particular version.

### How to use Worker Versioning

To use this feature, follow these steps:

1. Define Worker build-identifier version sets for the Task Queue.
   You can use either the `temporal` CLI or your choice of SDK.
   **_TODO: Links_**
2. Enable the feature on your Worker by specifying a build identifier.
   **_TODO: Links for each SDK's Worker options_**

#### Defining the version sets

> Whether you use `temporal` cli or an SDK, updating the version sets feels the same. You specify the

Reviewer: Link to the CLI?

Task Queue that you're targeting, the build identifier that you're adding (or promoting), whether it
becomes the new default version, and any existing versions it should be considered compatible with.

The rest of this section uses updates to one Task Queue's version sets as examples.

A Task Queue starts its life in an unversioned state. Workers who have not opted into the feature
receive Tasks as usual. Workers who have opted in don't poll the Task Queue because they can't
receive Tasks for Workflows that have no associated version.

> :::note Versions don't need to be semver!

Reviewer: nit: it's not semver if it's only 2 parts.

Reviewer 2: nit on your nit: 2-part version numbers can still be in the general class of semantic versions, even if they're not "semver".
```suggestion
:::note Versions don't need to follow semver or any other semantic versioning standard!
```

The versions in the following examples look like semver versions for clarity, but they don't need to
be. Versions can be any arbitrary string.

:::

In the below examples, `(d)` means that set or version is the default.

First, we add a version `1.0` to the Task Queue as the new default.
Our version sets now look like this:

| set 1 (d) |
| --------- |
| 1.0 (d)   |

All new Workflows started on the Task Queue have their first Tasks assigned to version `1.0`.
Workers with their build identifier set to `1.0` receive these Tasks.

If Workflows that don't have an assigned version are still running on the Task Queue, Workers
without a version take those tasks. So ensure that such Workers are still operational if any

> Workflows were open when you added the first version. If you deployed any Workers with a _different_

Reviewer: Again, we need to explain that querying closed workflows also requires leaving the workers around.

Author: Addressed in the earlier spot.

We continue with our normal development cycle, adding a `3.0` version.
Nothing new here:

| set 1   | set 2   | set 3 (d) |
| ------- | ------- | --------- |
| 1.0 (d) | 2.0     | 3.0 (d)   |
|         | 2.1 (d) |           |

Now imagine that version `3.0` doesn't have an explicit bug, but something about the business logic
is less than ideal. We are OK with existing `3.0` Workflows running to completion, but we want new
Workflows to use the old `2.x` branch. This operation is supported by performing an update targeting
`2.1` (or `2.0`) and setting it's set as the current default, which results in these sets:

| set 1   | set 3   | set 2 (d) |
| ------- | ------- | --------- |
| 1.0 (d) | 3.0 (d) | 2.0       |
|         |         | 2.1 (d)   |

Now new workflows start on `2.1`.

#### Permitted and forbidden operations on version sets

A request to change the sets can do one of the following:

- Add a version to the sets as new the default version in a new overall-default compatible set.
- Add a version to an existing set that is compatible with an existing version.
  - Optionally making it the default for that set
  - Optionally making that set the overall-default set.

> - Promote a version within an existing set to become the default for that set.

Reviewer: nit: this doesn't have an example above

- Promote a set to become the overall-default set.

You can't explicitly delete versions. This helps you avoid the situation in which Workflows
accidentally become stuck with no means of making progress because the version they are associated
with no longer exists.

> However, sometimes you might want to do this intentionally. If you _want_ to make sure that all

Reviewer: Nice, this is effectively task queue pause, a feature that I've seen requested before.

Author: Yes, I've mentioned this one or twice

Workflows currently being processed by, say, `2.0` stop (even if you don't yet have a new version
ready) you can add a new version `2.1` to the sets marked as compatible with `2.0`. New tasks will
target `2.1`, but since you have not yet deployed any `2.1` workers, they will not make any
progress.

#### Set constraints

The sets have a maximum size limit, which defaults to 1000 build ids across all sets. This limit is

> configurable on Temporal Server via the `limit.versionBuildIDPerQueue` dynamic config property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
configurable on Temporal Server via the `limit.versionBuildIDsPerQueue` dynamic config property.
```

Operations to add new Build IDs to the sets will fail if the limit would be exceeded.

> There is also a limit on the number of sets, which defaults to 10. This limit is configurable via

Reviewer: Not a docs concern but 10 might not be enough as the default assuming daily deployment and an arbitrary long running workflow.

Author: I don't care what it is but 10 is what David / Yimin thought was plausible for overhead. Whatever it ends up being we can just adjust this later. 

> assuming daily deployment and an arbitrary long running workflow

I mean, if it runs arbitrarily long, _no_ limit is sufficient so it's a bit of a moot point.

when new versions are introduced. New [Workflow Executions](/workflows#workflow-execution) run using
the new code in the newly deployed Workers, and old Workflow Executions are processed only by
Workers with an appropriate version. Old workers can be decommissioned after the archival of any
open workflows using their version, or if you do not care about querying closed workflows, once
there are no longer any open workflows at that version.

For example, if you have a Workflow that never takes longer than a day to execute, a great strategy
is to always assign a new build identifier to every new build of your Worker and add it to the
version sets as the new overall default. Because you know that your Workflow never takes more than a
day to complete, you know that you'll never have to leave older Workers running for more than a day
after you deploy the new version (assuming availability). You don't need to worry about removing old
versions from the sets. Leaving them there is harmless.

You can use this technique with longer-lived Workflows as well. Just be aware that you might need to
keep multiple versions of Workers running while open Workflows complete.

> You can also use the feature to prevent a buggy codepath from being taken on currently open

Author: Good point, mentioned that first.

Workflows. You can do this by adding a new version to an existing set and specifying it as
_compatible_ with an existing version on which no future Workflow Tasks should execute. Because the
new version processes existing [Event Histories](/workflows/#event-history), it is subject to the
normal [deterministic constraints](/workflows/#deterministic-constraints), and you might need to use
one of the [versioning APIs](/workflows/#workflow-versioning).

The feature also permits you to make incompatible changes to Activity Definitions in conjunction
with incompatible changes to Workflow Definitions that use those Activities. This works because any
Activity scheduled by a Workfow on the same Task Queue will, by default, only be dispatched to
Workers that have a compatible build ID with the Workflow that scheduled it. Thus, if you wish

> to change the type signature of an Activity Definition while creating a new incompatible build ID

Reviewer: I would stress that with this feature, any "public facing" workflows on this task queue should maintain their signature and if a user wants to change the public workflow signature, they should use a completely new task queue.

for a Worker, you can do so without concern that the Activity will fail to execute on some other
Worker with an incompatible definition. The same principle applies to Child Workflows.

Note that if you schedule an Activity or a Child Workflow on _different_ Task Queue from the one

> the Workflow is running on, they will be not be assigned any particular version.

Author: Problem is you have to mention both versioned/unversioned task queues, but I expanded it.

Continue-as-new from a Workflow on a versioned Task Queue will, by default, start the continued
Workflow on the same compatible set as the original Workflow. Continuing-as-new onto a different

> task queue will not assign any particular version.

Author: Yes... but I wanted to avoid having to specify exactly how a user does that b/c we haven't added it to the command yet and it'll probably look slightly different in each SDK. I could say something generic like "Look at your SDK's reference docs for c-a-n" or something

> task queue will not assign any particular version.

Reviewer: I think we're going to need this feature for child workflows as well.
This default behavior where everything stays in the same compatible version will make it hard to retire old workers in some scenarios.

> task queue will not assign any particular version.

Author: Left it generic for now

### How to use Worker Versioning

To use this feature, follow these steps:

1. Define Worker build-identifier version sets for the Task Queue.
   You can use either the `temporal` CLI or your choice of SDK.
   **_TODO: Links_**
2. Enable the feature on your Worker by specifying a build identifier.
   **_TODO: Links for each SDK's Worker options_**

#### Defining the version sets

Whether you use `temporal` [cli](/cli/) or an SDK, updating the version sets feels the same. You
specify the Task Queue that you're targeting, the build identifier that you're adding (or
promoting), whether it becomes the new default version, and any existing versions it should be
considered compatible with.

The rest of this section uses updates to one Task Queue's version sets as examples.

> A Task Queue starts its life in an unversioned state. Workers who have not opted into the feature
> receive Tasks as usual. Workers who have opted in don't poll the Task Queue because they can't
> receive Tasks for Workflows that have no associated version.

Reviewer 2: this feels confusing. how about:
```suggestion
By default, both Task Queues and Workers are in an unversioned state. Unversioned Workers
can poll unversioned Task Queues and receive tasks. To use this feature,
both the Task Queue and the Worker have to have build ids associated with them.
If you run a Worker using versioning against a Task Queue that has not been set up to
use versioning (or is missing that Worker's build id), it won't get any tasks.
Likewise, a unversioned worker polling a Task Queue with versioning won't work either.
```

Author: Used that, thanks

:::note Versions don't need to be semver!

The versions in the following examples look like semver versions for clarity, but they don't need to
be. Versions can be any arbitrary string.

:::

> In the below examples, `(d)` means that set or version is the default.

Reviewer 2: can we just spell out `(default)`? or maybe it's clearer to make it bold/underline/both?

---
id: what-is-worker-versioning
title: What is Worker Versioning?
sidebar_label: Worker Versioning
description: Worker Versioning allows you to more easily deploy changes to Workflow Definitions.
tags:
  - explanation
  - versioning
---

> Worker Versioning simplifies the process of deploying changes to [WorkflowDefinitions](/workflows/#workflow-definition). We recommend that you read about Workflow Definitions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Worker Versioning simplifies the process of deploying changes to [Workflow Definitions](/workflows/#workflow-definition). We recommend that you read about Workflow Definitions
```

We recommend that you read about Workflow Definitions before proceeding, because Workflow Versioning is largely concerned with helping to manage nondeterministic changes to those definitions.

Worker Versioning helps manage nondeterministic changes by providing a convenient way to ensure that [Workers](#workers) with different Workflow and Activity Definitions operating on the same [Task Queue](#task-queue) don't attempt to process [Workflow Tasks](#workflow-task) and [Activity Tasks](#activity-task-execution) that they can't successfully process, according to sets of versions associated with that Task Queue that you've defined.

Accomplish this goal by assigning a Build ID (a free-form string) to the code that defines a Worker, and specifying which Build IDs are compatible with each other by updating the version sets associated with the Task Queue, stored by the Temporal Server.

> ### When and why should you use Worker Versioning

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### When and why you should use Worker Versioning
```

> The main reason to use this feature is to deploy incompatible changes to short-lived [Workflows](/workflows). On Task Queues using this feature, the Workflow starter doesn't have to know about the introduction of new versions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The main reason to use this feature is to deploy incompatible changes to short-lived [Workflows](/workflows).
On Task Queues using this feature, the Workflow starter doesn't have to know about the introduction of new versions.
```

The new code in the newly deployed Workers executes new [Workflow Executions](#workflow-execution), while only Workers with an appropriate version process old Workflow Executions.

#### Decommision old Workers

> You can decommission old Workers once you archive all open Workflows using their version, or if you have no need to Query closed Workflows, you can decommission them once no open Workflows remain at that version.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can decommission old Workers after you archive all open Workflows using their version.
If you have no need to query closed Workflows, you can decommission them when no open Workflows remain at that version.
```

> For example, if you have a Workflow that completes within a day. A good strategy is to assign a new Build ID to every new Worker build and add it as the new overall default in the version sets.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, if you have a Workflow that completes within a day, a good strategy is to assign a new Build ID to every new Worker build and add it as the new overall default in the version sets.
```

Because your Workflow completes in a day, you know that you won't need to keep older Workers running for more than a day after you deploy the new version (assuming availability).

> Removing old versions from the sets isn't necessary. Leaving them doesn't cause any harm.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Removing old versions from the sets isn't necessary.
Leaving them doesn't cause any harm.
```

> You can apply this technique to longer-lived Workflows too; however, you may need to run multiple Worker versions simultaneously while open Workflows complete.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can apply this technique to longer-lived Workflows too; however, you might need to run multiple Worker versions simultaneously while open Workflows complete.
```

#### Deploy code changes to Workers

> The feature also allows you to implement compatible changes to or prevent a buggy code path from executing on currently open Workflows. You can achieve this by adding a new version to an existing set and defining it as _compatible_ with an existing version, which shouldn't execute any future Workflow Tasks. Since the new version processes existing [Event Histories](/workflows/#event-history), it must adhere to the usual [deterministic constraints](/workflows/#deterministic-constraints), and you may need to use one of the [versioning APIs](/workflows/#workflow-versioning).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The feature also lets you implement compatible changes to or prevent a buggy code path from executing on currently open Workflows.
You can achieve this by adding a new version to an existing set and defining it as _compatible_ with an existing version, which shouldn't execute any future Workflow Tasks.
Because the new version processes existing [Event Histories](/workflows/#event-history), it must adhere to the usual [deterministic constraints](/workflows/#deterministic-constraints), and you might need to use one of the [versioning APIs](/workflows/#workflow-versioning).
```

> Moreover, this feature enables you to make incompatible changes to Activity Definitions in conjunction with incompatible changes to Workflow Definitions that use those Activities. This functionality works because any Activity that a Workflow schedules on the same Task Queue only gets dispatched to Workers compatible with the Workflow that scheduled it.
> If you want to change an Activity Definition's type signature while creating a new incompatible Build ID for a Worker, you can do so without worrying about the Activity failing to execute on some other Worker with an incompatible definition. The same principle applies to Child Workflows.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Moreover, this feature let you make incompatible changes to Activity Definitions in conjunction with incompatible changes to Workflow Definitions that use those Activities.
This functionality works because any Activity that a Workflow schedules on the same Task Queue gets dispatched only to Workers compatible with the Workflow that scheduled it.
If you want to change an Activity Definition's type signature while creating a new incompatible Build ID for a Worker, you can do so without worrying about the Activity failing to execute on some other Worker with an incompatible definition.
The same principle applies to Child Workflows.
```

:::tip

> Public facing Workflows on a versioned Task Queue shouldn't change their signature as it contradicts the purpose of Workflow-launching Clients remaining unaware of changes in the Workflow Definition. If you need to change a Workflow's signature, use a different Workflow Type or a completely new Task Queue.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Public-facing Workflows on a versioned Task Queue shouldn't change their signatures because doing so contradicts the purpose of Workflow-launching Clients remaining unaware of changes in the Workflow Definition.
If you need to change a Workflow's signature, use a different Workflow Type or a completely new Task Queue.
```

:::

:::note

> If you schedule an Activity or a Child Workflow on _a different_ Task Queue from the one the Workflow runs on, the system doesn't assign a specific version. This means if the target queue is versioned, they run on the latest default, and if its unversioned, they operate as they would have without this feature.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you schedule an Activity or a Child Workflow on _a different_ Task Queue from the one the Workflow runs on, the system doesn't assign a specific version.
This means if the target queue is versioned, they run on the latest default, and if it's unversioned, they operate as they would have without this feature.
```

:::

**Continue-As-New and Worker Versioning**

By default, a versioned Task Queue's Continue-as-New function starts the continued Workflow on the same compatible set as the original Workflow.

If you continue-as-new onto a different Task Queue, the system doesn't assign any particular version. You also have the option to specify that the continued Workflow should start using the Task Queue's latest default version.

### How to use Worker Versioning

> To use Worker Versioning:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To use Worker Versioning, follow these steps:
```
Per https://developers.google.com/style/lists#introductory-sentences-for-lists.

1. Define Worker build-identifier version sets for the Task Queue.
   You can use either the `temporal` CLI or your choice of SDK.
2. Enable the feature on your Worker by specifying a Build ID.

#### Defining the version sets

> Whether you use `temporal` [CLI](/cli/) or an SDK, updating the version sets feels the same. You
> specify the Task Queue that you're targeting, the Build ID that you're adding (or
> promoting), whether it becomes the new default version, and any existing versions it should be
> considered compatible with.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Whether you use [Temporal CLI](/cli/) or an SDK, updating the version sets feels the same.
You specify the Task Queue that you're targeting, the Build ID that you're adding (or promoting), whether it becomes the new default version, and any existing versions it should be considered compatible with.
```

The rest of this section uses updates to one Task Queue's version sets as examples.

> By default, both Task Queues and Workers are in an unversioned state. [Unversioned Worker](#unversioned-workers) can poll
> unversioned Task Queues and receive tasks. To use this feature, both the Task Queue and the Worker
> have to have Build IDs associated with them.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, both Task Queues and Workers are in an unversioned state.
[Unversioned Worker](#unversioned-workers) can poll unversioned Task Queues and receive tasks.
To use this feature, both the Task Queue and the Worker must be associated with Build IDs.
```

> If you run a Worker using versioning against a Task Queue that has not been set up to use versioning (or is missing that Worker's Build ID), it won't
> get any tasks. Likewise, a unversioned Worker polling a Task Queue with versioning won't work either.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you run a Worker using versioning against a Task Queue that has not been set up to use versioning (or is missing that Worker's Build ID), it won't get any tasks.
Likewise, a unversioned Worker polling a Task Queue with versioning won't work either.
```

:::note Versions don't need to follow semver or any other semantic versioning scheme!

The versions in the following examples look like semver versions for clarity, but they don't need to be.
Versions can be any arbitrary string.

:::

First, add a version `1.0` to the Task Queue as the new default.
Your version sets now look like this:

| set 1 (default) |
| --------------- |
| 1.0 (default)   |

All new Workflows started on the Task Queue have their first tasks assigned to version `1.0`.
Workers with their Build ID set to `1.0` receive these Tasks.

> If Workflows that don't have an assigned version are still running on the Task Queue, Workers
> without a version, take those tasks. So ensure that such Workers are still operational if any
> Workflows were open when you added the first version. If you deployed any Workers with a _different_

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If Workflows that don't have an assigned version are still running on the Task Queue, Workers without a version take those tasks.
So ensure that such Workers are still operational if any Workflows were open when you added the first version.
If you deployed any Workers with a _different_ version, those Workers receive no Tasks.
```

> version, those Workers receive no Tasks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Now, imagine you need change the Workflow for some reason.

Add `2.0` to the sets as the new default:

| set 1         | set 2 (default) |
| ------------- | --------------- |
| 1.0 (default) | 2.0 (default)   |

All new Workflows started on the Task Queue have their first tasks assigned to version `2.0`.
Existing `1.0` Workflows keep generating tasks targeting `1.0`.
Each deployment of Workers receives their respective Tasks.
This same concept carries forward for each new incompatible version.

> Maybe you have a bug in `2.0`, and you want to make sure all open `2.0` Workflows switch to some new
> code as fast as possible. So, you'll add `2.1` to the sets, marking it as compatible with `2.0`. Now your
> sets look like this:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Maybe you have a bug in `2.0`, and you want to make sure all open `2.0` Workflows switch to some new code as fast as possible.
So, you add `2.1` to the sets, marking it as compatible with `2.0`.
Now your sets look like this:
```

| set 1         | set 2 (default) |
| ------------- | --------------- |
| 1.0 (default) | 2.0             |
|               | 2.1 (default)   |

> All new Workflow Tasks that are generated for Workflows whose last Workflow Task completion was on
> version `2.0` are now assigned to version `2.1`. Because you specified that `2.1` is compatible with
> `2.0`, Temporal Server assumes that Workers with this version can process the existing Event
> Histories successfully.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All new Workflow Tasks that are generated for Workflows whose last Workflow Task completion was on version `2.0` are now assigned to version `2.1`.
Because you specified that `2.1` is compatible with `2.0`, Temporal Server assumes that Workers with this version can process the existing Event Histories successfully.
```

Continue with your normal development cycle, adding a `3.0` version.
Nothing new here:

| set 1         | set 2         | set 3 (default) |
| ------------- | ------------- | --------------- |
| 1.0 (default) | 2.0           | 3.0 (default)   |
|               | 2.1 (default) |                 |

> Now imagine that version `3.0` doesn't have an explicit bug, but something about the business logic
> is less than ideal. You are okay with existing `3.0` Workflows running to completion, but you want new
> Workflows to use the old `2.x` branch. This operation is supported by performing an update targeting
> `2.1` (or `2.0`) and setting it's set as the current default, which results in these sets:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now imagine that version `3.0` doesn't have an explicit bug, but something about the business logic
is less than ideal.
You are okay with existing `3.0` Workflows running to completion, but you want new Workflows to use the old `2.x` branch.
This operation is supported by performing an update targeting `2.1` (or `2.0`) and setting its set as the current default, which results in these sets:
```

| set 1         | set 3         | set 2 (default) |
| ------------- | ------------- | --------------- |
| 1.0 (default) | 3.0 (default) | 2.0             |
|               |               | 2.1 (default)   |

Now new Workflows start on `2.1`.

#### Permitted and forbidden operations on version sets

A request to change the sets can do one of the following:

> - Add a version to the sets as new the default version in a new overall-default compatible set.

Reviewer 3: Something isn't quite right in this sentence. Should "as new the default" be "as the new default"?

Author: Yes, fixed

- Add a version to an existing set that's compatible with an existing version.

>   - Optionally making it the default for that set

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Optionally making it the default for that set.
```

  - Optionally making that set the overall-default set.
- Promote a version within an existing set to become the default for that set.
- Promote a set to become the overall-default set.

> You can't explicitly delete versions. This helps you avoid the situation in which Workflows
> accidentally become stuck with no means of making progress because the version they're associated
> with no longer exists.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can't explicitly delete versions.This helps you avoid the situation in which Workflows accidentally become stuck with no means of making progress because the version they're associated with no longer exists.
```

> However, sometimes you might want to do this intentionally. If you _want_ to make sure that all

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
However, sometimes you might want to do this intentionally.
```

> Workflows currently being processed by, say, `2.0` stop (even if you don't yet have a new version
> ready) you can add a new version `2.1` to the sets marked as compatible with `2.0`. New tasks will
> target `2.1`, but since you haven't deployed any `2.1` Workers, they won't make any
> progress.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you _want_ to make sure that all Workflows currently being processed by, say, `2.0` stop (even if you don't yet have a new version ready), you can add a new version `2.1` to the sets marked as compatible with `2.0`.
New tasks will target `2.1`, but because you haven't deployed any `2.1` Workers, they won't make any progress.
```

#### Set constraints

> The sets have a maximum size limit, which defaults to 1000 build ids across all sets. This limit is

Reviewer 2: This limit got reduced to 100

> configurable on Temporal Server via the `limit.versionBuildIDsPerQueue` dynamic config property.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
configurable on Temporal Server via the `limit.versionBuildIdLimitPerQueue` dynamic config property.
```

> The sets have a maximum size limit, which defaults to 1000 build ids across all sets. This limit is
> configurable on Temporal Server via the `limit.versionBuildIDsPerQueue` dynamic config property.
> Operations to add new Build IDs to the sets will fail if the limit would be exceeded.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The sets have a maximum size limit, which defaults to 1000 build IDs across all sets.
This limit is configurable on Temporal Server via the `limit.versionBuildIDsPerQueue` dynamic config property.
Operations to add new Build IDs to the sets fail if the limit would be exceeded.
```

> There is also a limit on the number of sets, which defaults to 10. This limit is configurable via

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There is also a limit on the number of sets, which defaults to 10.
```

> the `limit.versionCompatibleSetsPerQueue` dynamic config property.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This limit is configurable via the `limit.versionCompatibleSetsPerQueue` dynamic config property.
```

> the `limit.versionCompatibleSetsPerQueue` dynamic config property.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the `limit.versionCompatibleSetLimitPerQueue` dynamic config property.
```

> In practice, these limits should rarely be a concern because a version is no longer needed after no
> open Workflows are using that version, and a background process will delete IDs and sets which are
> no longer needed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In practice, these limits should rarely be a concern because a version is no longer needed after no open Workflows are using that version, and a background process will delete IDs and sets that are no longer needed.
```

> There is also a limit on the size of each Build ID or version string, which defaults to 255
> characters. This limit is configurable on the server via the `limit.workerBuildIdSize` dynamic
> config property.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There is also a limit on the size of each Build ID or version string, which defaults to 255 characters.
This limit is configurable on the server via the `limit.workerBuildIdSize` dynamic config property.
```

### Build ID reachability

> Eventually, you'll want to know if you can retire the old Worker versions. Temporal provides functionality
> to help you determine if a version is still in by open or closed Workflows. You can use the
> `temporal` CLI to do this with the following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Eventually, you'll want to know whether you can retire the old Worker versions.
Temporal provides functionality to help you determine whether a version is still in use by open or closed Workflows.
You can use the Temporal CLI to do this with the following command:
```

```command
temporal task-queue get-build-id-reachability
```

> The command tells if the Build ID in question is unreachable, only reachable by closed Workflows, or reachable by open and new Workflows on a per-Task-Queue basis.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The command determines, for each Task Queue, whether the Build ID in question is unreachable, only reachable by closed Workflows, or reachable by open and new Workfloww.
```

> For example, this "2.0" Build ID is shown here by the CLI to be reachable by both new Workflows and
> some existing Workflows:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, this "2.0" Build ID is shown here by the CLI to be reachable by both new Workflows and some existing Workflows:
```

```command
temporal task-queue get-build-id-reachability --build-id "2.0"
```

```output
BuildId                         TaskQueue                                   Reachability
    2.0  build-id-versioning-dc0068f6-0426-428f-b0b2-703a7e409a97  [NewWorkflows
                                                                   ExistingWorkflows]
```

For more information, see the [CLI documentation](/cli/) or help output.

You can also use this API `GetWorkerTaskReachability` directly from within language SDKs.

### Unversioned Workers

> Unversioned Workers refer to Workers that have not opted into the Worker Versioning feature in their configuration. They will only receive tasks from Task Queues which do not have any version sets defined on them, or which have open workflows that began executing before versions were added to the queue.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Unversioned Workers refer to Workers that have not opted into the Worker Versioning feature in their configuration.
They receive tasks only from Task Queues that do not have any version sets defined on them, or that have open workflows that began executing before versions were added to the queue.
```

is subject to the normal [deterministic constraints](/workflows/#deterministic-constraints), and you
might need to use one of the [versioning APIs](/workflows/#workflow-versioning).

The feature also permits you to make incompatible changes to Activity Definitions in conjunction
with incompatible changes to Workflow Definitions that use those Activities. This works because any
Activity scheduled by a Workflow on the same Task Queue will, by default, only be dispatched to
Workers that have a compatible build ID with the Workflow that scheduled it. Thus, if you wish
to change the type signature of an Activity Definition while creating a new incompatible build ID
for a Worker, you can do so without concern that the Activity will fail to execute on some other
Worker with an incompatible definition. The same principle applies to Child Workflows. It's 
important to keep in mind that "publicly facing" workflows on a versioned Task Queue should not
change their signature, as this defeats the purpose of workflow-launching clients being oblivious
to changes in the Workflow Definition. If you need to change the signature of a Workflow, you should

> use an entirely new Task Queue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
use a different Workflow Type or an entirely new Task Queue.
```
changing the type feels like the normal way to go in that situation to me? but you can switch the order if you like changing the task queue
